README.md, before:

# nextcloud-docker-nginx-reverse-proxy
This is the basis of the configuration of my production Nextcloud server.

## Overview
<a href="./high-level-overview.svg">
    <img src="./high-level-overview.png" width="800" />
</a>

## Containers
- Nextcloud
- MariaDB / db
- OnlyOffice
- LetsEncrypt / nginx / Proxy

## Features
- HTTPS enforced / only
- Only ports exposed are from the nginx / LetsEncrypt webserver (443 and 80)
- Seperated office and cloud subdomains for security
- OnlyOffice integration (can be swapped out for CollaboraOnline)

## DNS setup
| Subdomain | Service |
| - | - |
| cloud | Nextcloud |
| office | OnlyOffice |

Note: both domains must direct to your server

## Server dependencies
- `docker-compose`
- `docker`

## Configuration
### docker-compose
##### MariaDB
Set your MySQL passwords
```yaml
    environment:
      - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=
      - MYSQL_PASSWORD=
      - MYSQL_DATABASE=nextcloud
      - MYSQL_USER=root
```

##### letsencrypt
Set your `email` address, domain `URL`, and if necessary tweak the `SUBDOMAINS`.
```yaml
    environment:
      - PUID=1050
      - PGID=1050
      - EMAIL=
      - URL=
      - SUBDOMAINS=cloud,office
      - TZ=Pacific/Auckland
      - ONLY_SUBDOMAINS=true
```
### Nginx
In `nginx.cfg`, adjust the value after each `server_name` to fit your set up.

## Setup
| # | Command |  
| - | - |  
| 1. | `docker-compose up -d` | Run the containers |  
| 2. | `docker-compose logs letsencrypt` | Watch the logs until the certificates have been generated, after they have been continue onto #3 |  
| 3. | `docker cp ./nginx.cfg nextclouddockernginxreverseproxy_proxy_1:/config/nginx/site-confs/default` | Install nginx config |  
| 4. | `docker-compose restart letsencrypt` | Restart nginx |  

## Initalising your setup
##### Nextcloud
1. Navigate to `https://cloud.yourdomain.com` (for whatever you set it to)
2. Enter in a username and password; Select dropdown and change database to `MySQL/MariaDB`, enter the same credentials as in `docker-compose.yml` for your mariadb database; Change `localhost` to `db:3306`.

## Managing your Nextcloud config
Backup: `docker-compose exec app cat /var/www/html/config/config.php > config.php`  
Restore: `docker cp ./config.php nextclouddockernginxreverseproxy_nextcloud_1:/var/www/html/config/config.php`  

## Configuring Nextcloud to trust the proxy
Back up your config, edit `config.php` and in the array add the lines:
```yaml
  'overwritehost' => 'cloud.yourdomain.com',
  'overwriteprotocol' => 'https',
  'trusted_proxies' => ['proxy'],
```
Make sure you change the value of `overwritehost` to the FQDN of your domain.

Restore your Nextcloud config.

## Using CollaboraOnline instead of OnlyOffice (optional)
Edit `docker-compose.yml`, remove references to `onlyoffice`, replace the `onlyoffice` related chunk with:
```yaml
  collabora:
    image: collabora/code:latest
    ports:
      - 9980:9980
    environment:
      - domain=
      - username=
      - password=
    cap_add:
      - MKNOD
    restart: unless-stopped
    depends_on:
      - nextcloud
```
Notes:
- IMPORTANT: any '.' / dots in `domain` must be appended with two backslashes `\\`, e.g: `cloud\\.mydomain\\.com`
- add a `username` and `password` in the given fields

## Finalising your setup
- install the OnlyOffice or CollaboraOnline connectors in Nextcloud's apps center
- set up a cronjob to run background jobs: (for some reason the docker container provided doesn't support background jobs via cron)
  1. Run `crontab -e` (as root or a user which is in the `docker` group)
  2. Enter in `*/5 * * * * docker exec -u www-data nextclouddockernginxreverseproxy_nextcloud_1 php -f /var/www/html/cron.php`
  3. Run `crontab -l` to verify it's installed

## Issues
Security scan on [scan.nextcloud.com](https://scan.nextcloud.com) only gives an A rating, because of __host-prefix issues.

## Useful links
- [Nextcloud reverse proxy configuration](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration_server/reverse_proxy_configuration.html)  
- [Nextcloud nginx configuration](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/16/admin_manual/installation/nginx.html)  
- [Background jobs](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/16/admin_manual/configuration_server/background_jobs_configuration.html)

Commit message:

Updated: README.md - added nginx info about using CollaboraOnline instead of OnlyOffice

README.md, after:

# nextcloud-docker-nginx-reverse-proxy
This is the basis of the configuration of my production Nextcloud server.

## Overview
<a href="./high-level-overview.svg">
    <img src="./high-level-overview.png" width="800" />
</a>

## Containers
- Nextcloud
- MariaDB / db
- OnlyOffice
- LetsEncrypt / nginx / Proxy

## Features
- HTTPS enforced / only
- Only ports exposed are from the nginx / LetsEncrypt webserver (443 and 80)
- Seperated office and cloud subdomains for security
- OnlyOffice integration (can be swapped out for CollaboraOnline)

## DNS setup
| Subdomain | Service |
| - | - |
| cloud | Nextcloud |
| office | OnlyOffice |

Note: both domains must direct to your server

## Server dependencies
- `docker-compose`
- `docker`

## Configuration
### docker-compose
##### MariaDB
Set your MySQL passwords
```yaml
    environment:
      - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=
      - MYSQL_PASSWORD=
      - MYSQL_DATABASE=nextcloud
      - MYSQL_USER=root
```

##### letsencrypt
Set your `email` address, domain `URL`, and if necessary tweak the `SUBDOMAINS`.
```yaml
    environment:
      - PUID=1050
      - PGID=1050
      - EMAIL=
      - URL=
      - SUBDOMAINS=cloud,office
      - TZ=Pacific/Auckland
      - ONLY_SUBDOMAINS=true
```
### Nginx
In `nginx.cfg`, adjust the value after each `server_name` to fit your set up.

## Setup
| # | Command |  
| - | - |  
| 1. | `docker-compose up -d` | Run the containers |  
| 2. | `docker-compose logs letsencrypt` | Watch the logs until the certificates have been generated, after they have been continue onto #3 |  
| 3. | `docker cp ./nginx.cfg nextclouddockernginxreverseproxy_proxy_1:/config/nginx/site-confs/default` | Install nginx config |  
| 4. | `docker-compose restart letsencrypt` | Restart nginx |  

## Initalising your setup
##### Nextcloud
1. Navigate to `https://cloud.yourdomain.com` (for whatever you set it to)
2. Enter in a username and password; Select dropdown and change database to `MySQL/MariaDB`, enter the same credentials as in `docker-compose.yml` for your mariadb database; Change `localhost` to `db:3306`.

## Managing your Nextcloud config
Backup: `docker-compose exec app cat /var/www/html/config/config.php > config.php`  
Restore: `docker cp ./config.php nextclouddockernginxreverseproxy_nextcloud_1:/var/www/html/config/config.php`  

## Configuring Nextcloud to trust the proxy
Back up your config, edit `config.php` and in the array add the lines:
```yaml
  'overwritehost' => 'cloud.yourdomain.com',
  'overwriteprotocol' => 'https',
  'trusted_proxies' => ['proxy'],
```
Make sure you change the value of `overwritehost` to the FQDN of your domain.

Restore your Nextcloud config.

## Using CollaboraOnline instead of OnlyOffice (optional)
Edit `docker-compose.yml`, remove references to `onlyoffice`, replace the `onlyoffice` related chunk with:
```yaml
  collabora:
    image: collabora/code:latest
    ports:
      - 9980:9980
    environment:
      - domain=
      - username=
      - password=
    cap_add:
      - MKNOD
    restart: unless-stopped
    depends_on:
      - nextcloud
```
Notes:
- IMPORTANT: any '.' / dots in `domain` must be appended with two backslashes `\\`, e.g: `cloud\\.mydomain\\.com`
- add a `username` and `password` in the given fields

Update `onlyoffice` in your `nginx.cfg` to `collabora`.

## Finalising your setup
- install the OnlyOffice or CollaboraOnline connectors in Nextcloud's apps center
- set up a cronjob to run background jobs: (for some reason the docker container provided doesn't support background jobs via cron)
  1. Run `crontab -e` (as root or a user which is in the `docker` group)
  2. Enter in `*/5 * * * * docker exec -u www-data nextclouddockernginxreverseproxy_nextcloud_1 php -f /var/www/html/cron.php`
  3. Run `crontab -l` to verify it's installed

## Issues
Security scan on [scan.nextcloud.com](https://scan.nextcloud.com) only gives an A rating, because of __host-prefix issues.

## Useful links
- [Nextcloud reverse proxy configuration](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration_server/reverse_proxy_configuration.html)  
- [Nextcloud nginx configuration](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/16/admin_manual/installation/nginx.html)  
- [Background jobs](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/16/admin_manual/configuration_server/background_jobs_configuration.html)
